# her6noise
This repository contains custom MATLAB routines for timeseries analysis used in Soto & Biga et al. (2020) EMBO Journal
including frequency analysis and Gaussian Processes routines for periodicity detection. Below is a short guide to both.

(1) The zip file named Periodogram contains frequency analysis routines for computing aggregate spectra and frequency/noise
quantification in control vs mutant paired data in frequency_analysis_aggregate.m and frequency_noise_analysis.m respectively. 
Aggregate spectra have been generated by averaging the single cell power spectra observed across each condition. The quantification
of noise at single cell level was obtained from the power spectra as a ratio of power integrated across high frequency (cutoff) vs 
total power (containing ultradian) per cell. For more details head over to Methods @ Soto & Biga et al.

(2) The zip file named GP Periodicity contains routines adapted from Phillips et al. (2017) PLOS Comp Biol. Users can find the orginal
version at https://github.com/ManchesterBioinference/GPosc. The code uses the GPML toolbox by Rassmusen and Hannes.
For any use of these routines please include the citations as well as follow any further guidance defined for GPosc.

An important modification of the GPosc pipeline include the background normalisation pre-processing step. This is
done by dividing Venus::Her6 fluorescence by mKeima-H2B nuclear fluorescence for each track (corresponding to a single
cell) at each available timepoint. Another main modification is the use of a prior for the oscillatory lengthscale. 
This improves log-likelihood and aides in the selection of the correct model (periodic or aperiodic) as described in
the Methods @ Soto & Biga et al. Further other modifications were made to account for particular requirements of the data
such as the use of pairwise CTRL and mBSM (mutant) datasets. 

To run the routines download the folder named GP Periodicity and unarchive it. You will also need to
download the customised GPML toolbox version shared at https://github.com/ManchesterBioinference/GPosc/tree/master/General-tool/GPML.zip 
and make sure that an unarchived copy of GPML (as a folder) is located in the same directory as the periodicity routines. Full use of GPML requires running the startup.m routine which hasbeen included in the custom code for convenience. All that is left is to run main_periodicity.m.

No issues were observed when using different MATLAB versions and the code has been tested on R2019a. 



